R-0.0.1 (#89)
bob-crutchley/notes: topics/git/modules/forking/README.md

<!--PROPS
{
	"estTime": 10
}
-->
# Forking

<!--TOC_START-->
### Contents
- [Overview](#overview)
- [Proposing a change](#proposing-a-change)
- [Your idea](#your-idea)
- [Tasks](#tasks)
	- [Forking a repository](#forking-a-repository)
	- [Updating forked repository from original](#updating-forked-repository-from-original)
- [Summary](#summary)

<!--TOC_END-->
# Overview

> In layman terms forking is creating a copy of an existing repository under your account. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In layman's terms, forking is creating a copy of an existing repository under your account. 
```

> Forking a repository allows to freely experiment with the existing code base without the fear of breaking the project.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Forking a repository allows you to freely experiment with the existing code base, without the fear of breaking the project.
```

> Another use case is to contribute to the project by adding additional functionality. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Forking also gives you the ability to contribute to a project, by adding additional functionality. 
```

## Proposing a change

> In a scenario where you are using someones project and you find a bug, instead of submitting an issue about it you can try 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Imagine you are using someone's project and you find a bug. Usually, you would raise an issue for this; however, forking means you would be able to attempt a fix yourself. 
```

> fixing it. The steps would be:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The steps would be:
```

1. Fork the repository
2. Create a new branch
3. Fix the issue
4. Submit a pull request to the owner of the original project

If the owner approves your fix, your work should then be merged into the original repository.

## Your idea 

If a project is under public license that allows you to freely use it, you could use the project as a starting point for

> your own take on the project. In a scenario where you find a web application that you like, it's under the public license

Reviewer: ```suggestion
your own project. For example, if you found a web application that you liked, and it was under the public license,
```

> you can then fork the project and add any additional functionality and it will be yours to freely use or distribute.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
you could fork the project and add any additional functionality. This would then be yours to freely use or distribute.
```

## Tasks
### Forking a repository

> You will now for a remote repository, set up upstream to get updates from the original and propose a change to the owner

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You will now: fork a remote repository, configure upstream (to get updates from the original repository) and propose a change to the owner
```

> 1. Make sure you're logged in to your github account

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Make sure you're logged into your GitHub account
```

> 2. Click on "Fork" at the top right of this page for the `notes` project, this will then create a copy of the repository under your account <br />

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Click on "Fork", in the top right of this page, for the `notes` project. This will create a copy of the repository under your account <br />
```

![Fork >](https://imgur.com/X0bNG7K.png)

> 3. You will be redirected to your accounts version of the repository

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. You will be redirected to your account's version of the repository
```

> 4. Click on the green button "Clone or download" and copy the URL <br />

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Click on the green "Clone or download" buton, and copy the URL <br />
```

Author: ```suggestion
4. Click on the green "Clone or download" button, and copy the URL <br />
```

![Fork >](https://imgur.com/hkzKOvt.png)
5. Open a Bash terminal in the location you want to clone your project

> 6. Run `git clone URL`, replace the URL with the repository URL you copied in the previous step

Reviewer: ```suggestion
6. Run the command `git clone [URL]`, but replace [URL] with the repository URL you copied in the previous step
```

7. Change directory to the project you just cloned

> 8. Run the following command to see that you have cloned the correct repository: `git remote -v`. You should get a 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
8. Run the following command, to confirm that you have cloned the correct repository: `git remote -v`. You should get a 
```

> similar output for `fetch` and `push` but the URL will be pointing to your repository <br />

Reviewer: ```suggestion
similar output for `fetch` and `push`, but the URL will be pointing to your repository <br />
```

![Fork >](https://imgur.com/FOASYQ2.png)

### Updating forked repository from original

> Now you will set up your local project to receive updates from the original repository. This is required so that when

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now you will set up your local project to receive updates from the original repository. This is required, so that when
```

> the owner of the original repository add new functionality, bug fixes etc. you would have the ability to get them as well.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the owner of the original repository adds new functionality, bug fixes etc., you will be able to get these changes as well.
```

> 1. Open your Bash terminal in the root directory of your project, you should be able to see that you're on the master 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Open your Bash terminal, in the root directory of your project. You should be able to see that you're on the master 
```

> branch. Next you want to execute `git remote -v` to make sure that the upstream to original repository is not set up yet.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
branch. Next, you want to execute `git remote -v` to make sure that the upstream to the original repository is not set up yet.
```

> You should see similar output to this. <br />

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You should see a similar output to this. <br />
```

![Fork >](https://imgur.com/lqS0EUr.png)

> 2. Navigate your browser to the original git repository and copy the repository URL. You can do this by clicking on the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. In your browser, go to the original git repository and copy the repository URL. You can do this by clicking on the
```

> green button "Clone or download" and copy the URL <br />

Reviewer: ```suggestion
green "Clone or download" button and copying the URL <br />
```

![Fork >](https://imgur.com/hkzKOvt.png)

> 3. In your Bash terminal execute the following command, but replace the URL with the one you just copied

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Execute the following command in your Bash terminal, but replace the [URL] with the one you just copied:
```

> `git remote add upstream URL` 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`git remote add upstream [URL]` 
```

> 4. Next you want to check that it has been successfully added, execute the following command `git remote -v`, it should 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Next, you want to check that this has worked, which you can do by executing the `git remote -v` command.
```

> look similar to this: <br />

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The output should look similar to this: <br />
```

![Fork >](https://imgur.com/KpAfGaP.png)

> 5. Now you will pull the changes from original repository into yours, do this by executing the following command in your

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. Now you will pull the changes from the original repository into yours, which you can do by executing the following command in your
```

> Bash terminal `git fetch upstream` and then depending if there are new changes or not you will see different outputs, like: <br />

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Bash terminal. The output will depend on whether there are new changes or not: <br />
```

![Fork >](https://imgur.com/L7S2JB1.png)

> 6. You want to update the master branch therefore we will merge the *upstream/master* into the *local origin/master*, do this

Reviewer: ```suggestion
6. You will want to update the master branch, so we will merge the *upstream/master* into the *local origin/master*. You can do this
```

> by executing the following command: `git merge upstream/master` keep in mind there may be merge conflicts that you will

Reviewer: ```suggestion
by executing the `git merge upstream/master` command. Keep in mind that there may be merge conflicts that you will
```

>  need to resolve. If you have resolved the merge conflicts or if there were none you should *push* to update your 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 need to resolve. If you have resolved the merge conflicts, or if there were none, you should *push* to update your 
```

 *origin/master* branch. <br />
![Fork >](https://imgur.com/OYejtWC.png)

> ## Summary

Reviewer: I would remove the summary sections - i would personaly never read them (not sure how many people would). It should also be small and granular enough per module that it's very easy to see and understand what you've learned!

Author: @tvaidotas Are you happy about removing this summary section?

Author: Just going to remove the summary now
